♪ Opening Song ♪
[rumbling]
[footsteps]
[GINKO]
Finally.
[MAHO] I really don't
understand how it happened.
All I did was put my
hands over my ears,
and then four horns
grew from my head.
[NARRATOR]
On dark nights buffeted by snow,
when all sound disappears...
Heed this portent.
You must converse with someone
or take great care
to cover your ears,
lest you want those ears...
...to be devoured.
[SHIRASAWA]
Thank you so much for coming.
So your name is Ginko,
and you're a mushi master...
Is that right?
That's right.
[SHIRASAWA] I am Shirasawa,
the elder of this village.
It was I who summoned
for your assistance.
As you can see, this is a
humble and isolated place.
Our village is shadowed at the
base of the towering mountains.
Those mountains keep
this a very quiet place.
On snowy nights like this one,
words and whispers, and
even the wind can disappear.
It is at times like this
when some villagers
complain of a loss of hearing.
[GINKO]
Hmm.
Are both ears affected?
For the most part, no.
It's usually just one.
Doctors have examined
this condition,
but they've found no answer.
Since there's no natural cause,
I began to wonder if something
else was behind this.
[GINKO]
I've seen these symptoms before.
This mucus...
It's an infection...
caused by mushi.
What's that?
[GINKO]
They're called "un."
They're a type of mushi
that consumes sound.
They normally dwell in forests
and subsist on
the sound there.
But in winter, the snow
absorbs most sound.
That leaves them hungry.
They've come here
looking for food.
Ah... Now what do we have here?
Quite a sizeable colony
has built a nest.
They're competing for every
morsel of sound to be had.
But if there isn't enough,
Some will leave the nest to look
for a home in a living host.
[MAN]
It almost resembles a snail...
[gasps]
Where did they go?!
It appears they just moved out.
[GINKO] Did you know that
you have an organ in each ear
that looks just like a snail?
It looks inviting
to a hungry un,
so it abandons its old shell and
adopts the organ as its new one.
Then it eats all
the incoming sound.
But don't worry.
They normally don't leave
any permanent damage.
[WIFE]
Uh, sir?
Here's the hot water.
Will this be enough for you?
Yeah, thanks.
[GINKO] Just a little
bit of this in the ear.
[MAN gasps]
That should do the trick.
Feeling better?
[coughs] Hey, what was
in that solution?!
A little salt and hot water.
Salt? W-Wait! I can hear again!
Sprinkle some salt around.
Make sure to get
upstairs and the attic.
That'll keep out any
"unwanted tenants."
[SHIRASAWA] I must admit,
I'm quite impressed.
I've never seen a mushi
master in action before.
But our work is not finished.
There is another whose
hearing has been afflicted...
...in both ears.
He is my grandson.
I must warn you
that his symptoms
are far different
from the others.
And I must also request your
discretion in this matter.
Please don't tell the other
villagers of his condition.
[MAHO]
It's so loud...!
Please... be quiet!
[SHIRASAWA]
This is Maho...
He's been in this state
since last winter.
That was when those
horns suddenly appeared.
They changed him somehow.
He was no longer able to hear
the everyday sounds around him.
Rather, he began to
hear strange sounds,
dreadful noises that he
had never heard before.
[SHIRASAWA] Even on nights like
tonight, when all is silent,
Maho can still hear things.
Roars.
Whispers.
Movements.
The sounds never cease,
even if he plugs his ears.
Those horns seem to serve
as new ears that never deafen.
[GINKO]
How curious.
Could this be...
...the "ah"?
[SHIRASAWA gasps]
[GINKO] Mushi that
co-exist with the un.
They actually eat the
silence that the un create.
If one is infected with the ah,
they lose the ability to make
out sounds close to them.
The ah takes in all sound, and
drowns out normal hearing.
Ah are much fewer
in number than un.
They're rare and very little
is even known about them.
In fact, I know of
only one recorded case
where someone was
treated for ah.
According to record,
the salt water treatment
to extract un was used.
It had no effect, and the
ah could not be coaxed out.
Various herbs, holistic
remedies, and folk medicines
were then tried,
but with no results.
A year passed, and another
winter was at its end.
The sounds never ceased
tormenting the patient.
Being bombarded day-in and
day-out finally took its toll.
Her spirit broke, and it was
said she died of depression...
...one year after her
strange symptoms began.
Your saying she died?
Just one year later?
[GINKO]
We need to get started.
First, let's get
to know our enemy.
[MAHO gasps]
[GINKO]
Can you hear what I'm saying?
[MAHO]
Yes...
That's strange.
The noises that
I normally hear...
...have gotten quieter.
Ever since you came in,
the noises got
louder and louder.
It really hurt.
I thought that my head was going
to explode there for a second.
It's my fault...
I apologize for that.
You see, I'm able to
call out to mushi,
and they call back...
They're little creatures, but
they can make a lot of noise.
This smoke will quiet
them down a bit, though.
Mushi?
So... that's what I'm hearing?
[GINKO]
Mostly. In my opinion.
We humans have
pretty bad hearing.
But animals?
Their hearing is
much more sensitive.
They can hear noises that
we would never notice.
But... there is a spectrum
of sound so minute
that even the
animals can't hear.
That's the voices of the mushi.
Huh, really?
They don't sound quiet.
They're pretty loud
if you ask me.
[GINKO]
Actually, they're not.
Individually, mushi
make very little noise.
[GINKO]
But you have to realize that
there are millions
of mushi out there.
Even though their size and
their sound might be small,
they create a big noise when
they all start talking together.
That noise builds in
volume, like an echo,
and it reverberates
throughout the world.
I believe that's
what you're hearing,
but it's obviously
not through your ears.
They were deafened by the ah.
It was only after
those horns sprouted
that you began to
hear the other noises.
And your ears...
Physically, they're just fine.
So what you're hearing must
be through those horns.
They hold the answer.
Tell me about them.
The horns.
How did they first appear?
[MAHO]
I...
I was covering my
ears with my hands.
I-It was last winter, just
after my mother had passed on.
[MAHO]
Before she died,
Mother used to cover
her ears a great deal.
I remembered that one day
and decided to try
it out for myself.
So I did it.
That's when it happened.
The horns grew out of
my head all of a sudden.
Your mother would...
cover her ears?
[GINKO]
Why did she do that?
I don't really know.
I can't remember why she did it.
Mother suffered from the
same sickness I have.
She had horns as well.
So even if she covered her ears,
she wouldn't have been able
to shut out the noises.
Shortly before Mother died,
she tried to tell me something.
[MAHO] She was really
weak at that point,
but somehow Mother managed
to raise both of her hands
and cover my ears with them.
I wish...
I wish I could remember
what she said.
I try really hard to remember...
...and sometimes
I think I almost do.
[MAHO] But then those
other noises in my head
come rushing in and
I can't hear her...
[sobs]
[GINKO]
I see...
I do feel sorry for the boy.
The only good thing is that
we've discovered a connection
between his sickness
and that of his mother.
But a cure?
That's going to be the
real challenge, isn't it?
[SHIRASAWA] Oh, my dear,
sweet daughter, Matsu...
[SHIRASAWA] It broke my
heart, watching her suffer.
With that constant
noise tormenting her,
she was unable to sleep.
She'd never say it
in front of Maho...
...but she would
constantly tell me:
[MATSU] All I want to
do is sleep peacefully,
in a place where no
sound will intrude...
It was just as in the
case you mentioned.
She held on through the end
of the following winter.
Then she finally went to that
place for which she so longed.
Did her condition ever change,
or did she suffer
to the very end?
[SHIRASAWA]
It never changed.
Wait...
No, now that I think about it...
Near the end,
Matsu looked up at me and
said something strange.
[MATSU]
Mother, the noises!
They've gone away!
I can't hear a thing!
Absolutely nothing...
I'm frightened!
Now that they're gone, I...
...actually miss
those awful sounds!
After that, she claimed
all sound faded.
So did her spirit.
It was such a tragic loss.
So if I understand
you correctly,
your daughter couldn't
hear anything at all
right before she passed away?
[SHIRASAWA]
Yes. That's right.
Is there anything else?
[SHIRASAWA] No, just
the story Maho told you.
It was this time last year
when Matsu put her
hands over his ears.
I paid it little mind,
but I remember thinking
it was strange.
Just what would possess my
daughter to do such a thing?
[GINKO] So she couldn't hear
anything right before she died.
Did the ah know she was dying
and leave her body
before she expired?
No...
If that were so, her hearing
would have been restored.
Why wasn't she able
to hear anything?
[GINKO]
And if she couldn't hear...
...why would she bother
to cover her ears?
[door slides]
[GINKO]
Where do you think you're going?
Oh, wait... he can't hear me.
[MAHO yelps]
Uh...
Please don't tell.
I'm just going out for--
for a little walk.
Don't tell Grandmother, okay?
I have to get outside.
If I stay cooped up
in the house any longer,
I think I'll go crazy...!
I... I just...
[sighs]
...keep thinking...
...about my mother and
the sickness that killed her.
Will it kill me, as well?
[GINKO]
I don't blame him...
After all he's been through,
I'd be asking the same question
if I were in his place.
[GINKO]
Snowing again...
Maybe I shouldn't
have let him go.
[SHIRASAWA]
Maho? Maho?
Oh! I'm sorry, sir.
Have you seen Maho anywhere?
[GINKO]
Don't worry.
I saw the direction
he was heading.
[SHIRASAWA gasps]
Why did you let him leave?!
[GINKO]
I'll find him.
Trust me.
[GINKO]
It's quiet...
[GINKO] However, sound
is not totally absent.
Though it might be faint,
even falling snow
creates a sound.
Nothing is ever truly silent.
If it's quiet enough,
you can even hear the
beating of your heart.
[GINKO]
But...
Maho is unable to hear
natural sounds like that.
He can only hear the
sounds of faraway mushi.
[GINKO]
And if that imbalance
grew worse and
worse over time...
Perhaps...
Just perhaps...
...it could make all sound
disappear and fade away.
[GINKO]
Now I get it.
Hm?
--[footsteps crunching]
--[fire crackling]
[MAHO gasps]
[sighs]
[MAHO] I'm sorry you had
to come looking for me.
I didn't plan to stay gone
for so long, I swear.
But it started snowing
really hard outside,
so I came here... to wait
it out until it slowed down.
It didn't...
It just kept coming down
harder and harder...
[GINKO]
What's happening to his voice?!
[MAHO gasps]
[GINKO]
Easy there...
Stop fighting over me, okay?
Now which one of you is ah?
Un is coiled clockwise...
Ah counterclockwise...
So...
There you are.
[MAHO gasps]
[GINKO]
Hey, Maho...
It's okay. Give me your hands.
Put them on my ears
just like your mother did.
[muffled rumbling]
[MAHO]
Like this?
[thumping]
[rumbling, pop]
It dissolved!
[GINKO]
Even if you cover your ears,
you can't extinguish all sound.
[GINKO] It must have appeared as
if your daughter was trying to
shut out any noise
before she died.
But on the contrary,
she was trying to listen to
a sound she wanted to hear.
[GINKO]
Do you hear it?
[SHIRASAWA]
Yes...
It's like a small rumbling.
Exactly.
What you're hearing is the sound
of the muscles in
your wrists moving.
The ah feed on silence,
so noise is its
natural weakness.
As you just heard for yourself,
the body is always
making constant noise.
Therefore, if the ah
burrowed into a living host,
it would be a very
uncomfortable and noisy home.
That's what the ah
is trying to do--
Erase the body's sound.
If it fails, it will
dissolve or leave.
If it's successful, the ah takes
its toll on the host's body,
which dies from depression.
This struggle between
ah and host takes a year.
I have the feeling your daughter
probably realized
this towards the end.
But at that point,
she was too weak.
[MATSU]
Maho...
[MATSU] Can you hear it?
This is my sound.
[low rumbling]
Long ago...
Your father and I journeyed.
We saw a mountain...
...and it spewed fire.
My sound is exactly
like that of the lava
flowing from the mountain.
[MATSU]
That's why...
...when I'm overwhelmed
by the other sounds so much
I want to disappear...
I listen for my sound.
The sound of lava, which
can melt anything...
Nothing can withstand it.
It can melt fear, sadness,
all of the bad things in life.
Come now...
You must listen.
The lava flows within
you as well, Maho.
[rumbling continues]
[SHIRASAWA gasps]
[MAHO]
The lava...
[SHIRASAWA]
Maho...?
[MAHO]
Mother was right about the lava.
It's flowing...
[GINKO] Now as for the matter
of my fee, these will suffice.
[SHIRASAWA] Is... Is that
adequate compensation?
[GINKO]
That it is.
Is that all right
with you, Maho?
[MAHO]
Hm.
Huh?
[MAHO]
Huh...?
[GINKO] Maho, the world can
be a pretty quiet place,
especially in winter.
It's going to take
some getting used to,
and you may even miss the
old sounds you used to hear.
But just wait...
With spring comes
the sounds of life
and you'll forget those
old sounds in time.
I don't think...
I'll ever forget it.
[MAHO] I've listened
to it for so long...
...the same sound Mother heard.
It's actually very pretty.
It gives me the chills...
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Pillow Pathway."